VERITAS Cluster Server FAQ


1. Do I have to run "hastart" on each node to manually
startup VCS?

Yes. If you need to manually startup the cluster, you have to run "hastart" on
each node. There is no command to startup VCS on every node. If you only
execute "hastart" on one node, VCS will come up, but it probably won't startup
your Service Groups. VCS has to probe each machine the Service Group can
online on, and it can't do that if VCS isn't running on one of the nodes.


2. How do I start VCS when one node is down? 

Normally, VCS has to seed all the nodes in your cluster before becoming
fully operational. VCS may actually startup, but none of the commands will work.
If one of your nodes is down, and you need to start VCS on the other nodes,
then you must manually seed the other node(s). Run this command on each node
that is up:

     /sbin/gabconfig -cx

VCS should then be starting up. You may have to online some Service Groups
manually:

     hagrp -online {Service Group} -sys {hostname}

If the gabconfig command doesn't work, reconfigure GAB and LLT and try again.
Do the following on *both* nodes:

     1) Make sure had and hashadow are not in the process table. Check
        "ps -ef" and kill them if you have to.
     2) /sbin/gabconfig -U
     3) /sbin/lltconfig -U  (answer yes)
     4) /sbin/lltconfig -c
     5) /sbin/gabconfig -cx
     6) hastart

VCS should then startup on each node that is up.


3. How can I shutdown VCS without shutting down my
applications?
Use the "hastop -force" option.

   (1) hastop -all -force  (shuts down VCS on all nodes)
   (2) hastop -local -force  (shuts down VCS on the local node only)

WARNING: Always make the cluster read-only before doing a force shutdown.

     haconf -dump -makero

If you force stop a cluster while it is in read-write mode, you will get a
stale configuration error upon VCS restart.

To see if your cluster is in read-only mode, run "haclus -display". The
"ReadOnly" attribute should have a value of 1. If not, then run
"haconf -dump -makero" to make it read-only.

If you start VCS and get a stale configuration error, you have mainly 2
choices.

   (1) Run "hastop -all -force", check main.cf on your nodes for any
       inconsistencies, remove any .stale files in /etc/VRTSvcs/conf/config/,
       and restart VCS.

If you see no .stale files, then your main.cf's might have a syntax error.
Execute this command to see where the syntax errors are:

         cd /etc/VRTSvcs/conf/config/
         hacf -verify .


   (2) Continue to start VCS by running "hasys -force {hostname}". Pick the
       hostname of the machine you want VCS to load the main.cf from.

Usually you would choose the 2nd option if the cluster is not in production
or if you're confident the main.cf on the specified machine is good enough.

  
4. How do I failover a Service Group?
You can manually failover a Service Group two ways:

   (1) hagrp -switch {Service Group} -to {target node}

   (2) hagrp -offline {Service Group} -sys {current node}
       hagrp -online {Service Group} -sys {target node}

The second way simply gives you more control. After you offline the Group,
you can online it anywhere when you want to. The first way is for an
immediate "handsoff" failover.

   VCS can automatically failover Groups if you do the following:

   (1) Execute "init 6" or "shutdown -ry 0"
   (2) Execute "reboot"
   (3) Switch off the machine's power
   (4) Pull out all heartbeat cables simultaneously
   (5) Cause a "fault", i.e. manually shutdown some service or resource in
       your Service Group.
   (6) Panic the machine.


5. Is offlining a Service Group the same thing as failing
it over? What does offline mean?
No, when you offline a Group you are shutting down all the services in the
group, but you are not onlining it anywhere else. You can online the Group
at any time if you want.

Offline for a Group means the services in that group are unavailable to any
node in the cluster.

A failover is when a Group offlines from one node and onlines on another.


6. What's the difference between Agents and Resources?

Agents are VCS processes that control and monitor the Resources. Resources
are all those objects in your Service Group, and they all require Agents.

For example, all your filesystems are resources, and they all use the Mount
Agent. Your virtual IP address is a resource, and it uses the IP or
IPMultiNIC Agent. The Veritas Volume Manager Disk Group is a resource, and
it uses the DiskGroup Agent. Some Agents, such as the Oracle Enterprise
Agent, have to be purchased separately.


7. Does each Service Group have its own IP and DiskGroup?

Usually, Service Groups have their own IP and DiskGroup resources, but
this is not technically required; it all depends on your applications.
All a Service Group really needs is some resource.

Most resources, however, cannot be shared across Service Groups. That is why
Service Groups usually do have their own IP's, DiskGroup, filesystems, etc.

Groups can share certain resources like NIC and MultiNICA, although the
resource has a unique name in each Group.


8. Should I put everything in one Service Group, or should
I have more than one Service Group?

Usually people try to separate different applications as much as possible.
Service Groups serve as logical divisions for your applications. You
don't want a failure of one application to cause a failover of all your
applications if its unnecessary. If all your applications are using the
same Group, then a failure in that Group can cause all your applications
to fail.

The goal of high availability is to try to minimize single points of
failure. That is why separate applications in a cluster usually means
separate Service Groups are recommended.


9. How do I add another Service Group to main.cf?
You can add a Service Group using the VCS GUI, using VCS commands, or editing
the main.cf file.


10. Can I use vi to edit main.cf?
You can edit main.cf only when VCS is shutdown. VCS does not read main.cf 
when it is already running. VCS only reads from the configuration it has
in memory. If you edit main.cf while VCS is running, VCS will not read
your updates, and it will overwrite the main.cf with the configuration it
has in memory.

You can always edit a copy of main.cf and shutdown VCS, move the new
main.cf into /etc/VRTSvcs/conf/config/ and restart VCS.

Here's an example...

    1) haconf -dump
    2) cp main.cf /tmp/main.cf
    3) vi /tmp/main.cf
    4) haconf -dump -makero
    5) hastop -all -force
    6) cp /tmp/main.cf /etc/VRTSvcs/conf/config/
    7) hastart


11. Can different Resources have the same name if they
are in different Service Groups?
No, two resources in the cluster cannot have the same name, even if they
are in different Service Groups. Resource names must be unique in the
entire cluster.


12. What does autodisable mean? Why did VCS autodisable
my Service Group?
VCS does not allow failovers or online operation of a Service Group if it is
autodisabled.

VCS has to autodisable a Service Group when VCS on a particular node
shuts down *but* the GAB heartbeat is still running. Once GAB is unloaded,
e.g. when the node actually shuts down to PROM level, reboots, or powers off,
VCS on the other nodes can automatically clear the autodisable flag.

During the time interval a Group is autodisable, VCS won't allow that Group
to failover or be onlined anywhere within the cluster. This is a safety
feature to protect against "split brains", when more than one machine is
using the same resources, like the same filesystems and virtual IP at the
same time.

Once a node leaves the cluster, VCS has to assume that machine can be
user-controlled before it goes down, that theoretically someone can login
to that machine and manually startup services. It is for that reason that
VCS autodisables a Group within the existing cluster. But VCS does let you
clear the autodisable flag yourself. Once you're sure that the node that left
the cluster doesn't have any services running, you can clear the autodisable
flag with this command:

       hagrp -autoenable {name of Group} -sys {name of node}

Repeat the command for each Group that has been autodisabled.

The Groups that are autodisabled and the nodes they are autodisabled
for can be found with this command:

       hastatus -sum

Most of the time VCS autodisables a Group for a short period of time and
then clears the autodisable flag without you knowing it. If the node that
leaves the cluster actually shuts down, the GAB module is also unloaded,
and VCS running on the other nodes will assume that node has shutdown. VCS
will then automatically clear the autodisable flags for you.

There's one catch...by default VCS on the running cluster requires GAB to be
unloaded within 60 seconds after VCS on that node is stopped. After 60 seconds,
if GAB still isn't unloaded, VCS on the existing cluster will assume that node
isn't shutting down, and will keep the autodisable flags until
the administrator clears them.

To increase the 60 second window to 120 seconds, run this:

       hasys -modify ShutdownTimeout 120

For large systems that take a long time to shutdown, it is a good idea to
increase ShutdownTimeout.

Read the VCS User's Guide for more information on autodisable.


13. Does VCS require license keys to run? Did VCS 1.3
require license keys?
The latest versions of VCS require license keys to run. VCS 1.3 and before
did not.


14. Do I need to create the same VxVM DiskGroup on both
machines?
No, when you create a Volume Manager DiskGroup, just pick one machine
to create the DiskGroup on. You do not create the same DiskGroup on
both nodes.

After you create a DiskGroup, you can add it as a Resource to your VCS
configuration. VCS will then use VxVM commands to import and deport
the DiskGroup between the systems during Service Group online, offline,
or failover.


15. Can I run different versions of VCS in the same cluster?  
No, absolutely not! Different versions of VCS, and even different patch
levels of VCS, cannot run at the same time in the same cluster.

Therefore, when you install VCS patches, you must install them on *all* nodes
at the same time!

The cluster will have to be partially or completely shutdown during upgrades
or patching. Of course, you can shutdown VCS without shutting down your
services.


16. Does VCS require "shared disks"?
No, VCS does not require that your nodes are connected to shared disks.
However, most people like to have storage that can be deported and imported
during failover. If your applications do not need this, then you do not need
shared storage. The VCS installation and setup will not ask if you have
shared storage. This is great for people who don't have the shared storage
ready, but still want to try out or test VCS.


17. What is the difference between freezing the system
and freezing a Group? Which is better for maintenance?

Freezing a system prevents VCS from onlining a Service Group onto that
system. This is usually done when a machine in the cluster is unstable
or undergoing maintenance, and you don't want VCS to try to failover a
Group to that machine. However, if a Group is already online on a frozen
system, VCS can still offline that Group.

Freezing a Service Group is the most common practice when maintenance
needs to be done on the nodes while VCS is still running. When you freeze
a Group, VCS will take no action on that Group or its Resources no matter
what happens to the resources. That means you can take down your services,
like IP's, filesystems, databases and applications, and VCS won't do anything.
VCS won't offline the Group, or offline any resources. VCS also won't
online anything in that Group, and it won't online that Group anywhere. This
basically "locks" the Group on a node, or prevents it from onlining until you
unfreeze the Group. One thing that sometimes surprises people is that VCS will
still monitor a frozen Group and its resources. So, during maintenance, VCS
might tell you that your resources have faulted, or the Group is offline.
If you manually bring everything back up after maintenance, VCS monitoring
should refresh and see all your resources and the Group are online again.
This is a good thing, since it is best to know if VCS thinks your Group and
its resources are online before you unfreeze the Group.


To freeze a Group:

   haconf -makerw
   hagrp -freeze {Group name} -persistent
   haconf -dump -makero

To unfreeze a Group:

   haconf -makerw
   hagrp -unfreeze {Group name} -persistent
   haconf -dump -makero
 

18. I just added a DiskGroup to VCS, and VCS offlined
everything. Why?

The diskgroup you added was probably already imported manually or
through VMSA, and without the "-t" option.

    vxdg import {disk group}

VCS imports diskgroups using "-t", which sets the diskgroup's noautoimport
flag to "on".

    vxdg -t import {disk group}

So, when you added the diskgroup to VCS, VCS detected the new diskgroup was
imported outside of VCS because the noautoimport flag was set to "off". This
is considered a violation, and the DiskGroup Agent monitor script will then
offline the entire Service Group. This is a precaution to prevent split brain.

You can see a diskgroup's noautoimport flag by doing:

    vxprint -at {disk group}

If you've imported a new diskgroup, and have not yet added it to VCS, you
can deport the diskgroup first, and then add it to VCS. You do not need to
import a diskgroup to add it to VCS.


19. I need to play with a resource inside a Service Group,
but I don't want to cause the Group to fault. What do I need to do?

You should first make the resource non-critical.

  hares -modify {resource name} Critical 0

By making the resource non-critical, VCS will not offline the Group if it
thinks this resource faulted.

You must also make any Parents of this resource non-critical. Run this to
check if there are any parents for this resource:

  hares -dep

If you don't want VCS to monitor your resource, you can disable monitoring by
doing this:

  hares -modify {resource name} Enabled 0

This prevents VCS from monitoring the state of this resource, so it won't
fault the Group no matter what you do to the resource, even if it has
Critical=1.

If the Group is in production, you might want to freeze the Group just to
be safe.


20. After someone started up some process on the other node,
VCS reports a "Concurrency Violation", and tries to offline that process.
What is this, and is it bad?

A Concurrency Volation is reported when the Agent of a resource detects
that same resource or process is running on another node. The Agent will then
try to run the offline script for that resource on that other node. This is to
prevent split brain.

If the Agent cannot offline the process on the other node, then you may
want to manually offline the process or change the Agent's monitoring.

Sometimes a Concurrency Violation is more or less a "false alarm", because
it has a lot to do with how good your monitoring is. You need to find out
from your Agent, how exactly is it monitoring? If it is an Application Agent
resource, look at the MonitorProgram script, or look at MonitorProcesses.
If it looks like the Agent is just monitoring for something very superficial,
then just change the monitoring. If you are changing the monitoring in
production, you may want to freeze the Service Group or make the
resource non-Critical.




